The course consists of lectures, readings, pre-lecture questions, and a
project.  Most of the work in this course consists of reading journal and
conference papers. We will cover one paper for each class meeting.  Active
discussion will give you a non-trivial understanding of the material. The final
project will give you an opportunity to explore a topic more deeply.

#### Grading

- 15% Paper summaries and reading questions
- 30% Class participation
- 55% Final project (including presentation and write-up)

#### Paper summaries and reading questions

Prior to each lecture, please summarize each reading into 1-2 paragraphs.  With
some exceptions, each paper will also be accompanied with (one to two)
questions that you are required to respond to. The questions will be posted on
the reading list in the syllabus at least one day prior to the lecture devoted
to that paper.  Responses should be short and pithy. Our goal is to get you to
think deeply about the paper, not to test you. You wonâ€™t be graded on the
correctness of your answer but simply on whether you attempted to answer the
question at all.

#### Class participation

Students (in groups of 2-3) are expected to lead the discussion for one paper.
Beyond this, we evaluate class participation largely by observing how prepared
students are to discuss the covered paper when they come to class.  This is not
a trivial requirement because we expect papers to have been read thoroughly
prior to lecture.  Your paper summary and response to reading questions are a
good opportunity to show that you understood the paper well.

#### Final project

In groups of 2-3, students are expected to work on a final project.  The goal
of the project is to do original research on a security problem, (hopefully)
using techniques explored in this course.  We will devote some class time to
doing project updates.  At the end of the quarter, you are expected to give a
short presentation and write a short conference-style paper on the project.

We will have a list of project ideas shortly after the course starts, but
students are also encouraged to come up with their own ideas. If you are
already working on a research project that fits the theme of this course,
please feel free to use this as your final project (but indicate that you are
doing so and confirm with the instructor).
